well first of all said thank you so much
for coming to visit the Fred hutch today
as the directors special seminar speaker
it must be especially gratifying for you
to have written Emperor of all maladies
for which you're on the Pulitzer Prize
and to have that occur in a context of
these rapid and dramatic changes in the
way that we think about cancer so I'm
curious about how you think about the
most exciting things that are happening
in cancer how has that changed during
the course of time from when you first
started writing your book I had made a
promise to myself that I would rewrite
about two chapters of Emperor at the end
15 years after the book was published so
it turns out that 15 years is too long
so we're gonna do it now at the tenth
year are you now what's amazing is that
in these 10 years that has happened not
just to one field within cancer but to
multiple fields within cancer the most
prominent of this among these being of
course immunological therapy widely
speaking including the use of new drugs
that allow the immune system to
recognize cancers which were previously
unrecognizable the use of immune cell
transplantation Carty cells to allow
again immune cells to reject and and
send cancers into into long-term
remission and cure cancers but also I I
must say cancer prevention a completely
renewed interest in how we could track
cancers earlier and finally a really a
host of methods to detect cancer so it's
obviously been a very exciting time he
just makes my work harder because I have
to now write something about it
what's our obligation as physician
scientists to communicate to the general
look how do we get around this challenge
of fake news how do we get around
over-promising yeah well I think the
first thing is that science is not fake
news and I think one of the
responsibilities we take up tacitly when
we become physician scientists or
scientists is to communicate what we
understand in its full complexity when
you report and communicate the an idea
in its full complexity readers rise to
the occasion in fact they're they're
dying for this idea that they're among
the most exciting things we're doing in
our world today and so it is to
communicate the excitement it is to
remind people of the challenges and and
be very cognizant about your own biases
as you write the I mean is the
excitement is their excitement bias in
our field absolutely you know the thing
that brings things that brings
researchers to their laboratories at 9 9
o'clock at night after you know long day
at work in the coming back the second
time is excitement bias they wanted to
look at their cells they want to figure
out if the experiment worked or not but
on the other hand I think as scientists
as researchers that has to be tempered
with the idea that not everything will
work out many things will fail and to be
able to communicate those as well the
disappointments the caveats the problems
and all of it can be done and people are
still interested they will still remain
interested because as I said we are
grappling with some of the most
interesting ideas of our times you're
known for being and I know you
personally as being incredibly creative
and innovative and out-of-the-box
thinker how do you think about how we
encourage younger people coming into
this field to think out of the box the
most creative ideas in your life at
least for me still happened to me and I
know this when I was in my 20s and 30s
those are the most important years and I
think the real challenge is how to keep
the spark alive for people in their
twenties just give them adequate
mentorship adequate support so that in
their 20s when they hit that really
glimmering idea that comes right out and
becomes a new treatment for cancer you
were to prevent cancer
a new way to think about the human
genome the new way to think about some
other disease we had discussions earlier
today about the excitement around how to
integrate technology and data science
into life sciences and it's an exciting
opportunity for us here in Seattle
because of the presence of the Microsoft
and the Amazons and the googles of the
world but how do you think about that is
that is that overhyped is it that we
realized the potential will we realize
potential around big data as it relates
to cancer care and treatment where was
the signal from human genomics that
would have pointed out the idea that
immunotherapy would work in cancer and
there was a signal it was a but it was a
tiny signal there was a signal that in
fact if you looked very deeply at people
who responded or didn't respond to
certain kinds of therapies that immune
molecules would be involved in the tumor
but it was a tiny signal and I would
argue may have even been a neglected
signal and it took a different kind of
scientist to say wait a second that
signals important I'm gonna invest my
life's work to figuring out how these
cells go into tumors infiltrate tumors
kill tumors so this is a challenge to
Big Data people as much as it's a
challenge to bench experimentalists to
say that this ecosystem will only work
if they talk together yeah I think we
really need that congruence of
investigation so my last question is
what are the two new chapters in your
book going to be here what would you
like for them to be so I think there's a
whole chapter around prevention early
detection which I think will be
important and then there's going to be a
chapter around new ways of treating and
curing cancer we've covered some of them
and finally I think a third chapter
which I'll give myself three instead of
two about the cultural impact of all of
this the social human impact of all of
this we move forward did we reckon sive
cancer how much do we do we we conceive
cancer in the last decade or so what
impact will it have for the future of
our populations our aging our
conceptions of ourselves and what do we
not do next when can we expect those
it's so 2020 is gonna be the tenure mark
for the original publication of Emperor
okay good what forward to that thank you
so much my pleasure I really enjoyed it